# PackageRecDataset

INTRODUCTION
============================================================
This pacakage recommendations dataset is generated by randomly select 1,400 "top" and 600 "bottom" images from Amazon product data (http://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/) and obtaining  30 ratings each from 200 participants recruited from Amazon Mechanical Turk for individual tops and bottoms and packages combining them.

For each participant, we first asked them whether they wear clothes for men or women, and then provided 30 screens where each screen showed images of one top and one bottom filtered for their chosen gender preference. We also asked participants 
to rate on a scale of 1 to 5 how much: 
1. They would like to wear the top, 
2. They would like to wear the trousers,
3. They would like to wear the top and trousers together.
From our participants, we obtained 12,000 individual ratings and 6,000 package ratings.

To cover all these possibilities, we adopted the following methodology. First, we used 4-fold crossvalidation by randomly splitting the individual ratings into four parts. We rotated and used 3 parts as the training set and one for testing. Then in each fold we used only 25% of package ratings as the training set, and the remaining 75% package ratings as the test set. These mechanisms for holding  back data to make package predictions ensure that all possibilities are covered in a realistic manner.

FILES SUMMARY
============================================================
1. itemReferences.csv comes along with 2,000 rows consist of three attributes: ASIN, itemID, and clothesType. For top items clothesType = 1 (1,400 rows), meanwhile for bottoms clothesType = 2 (600 rows).
2. items.csv comes along with 2,000 rows of itemID.
3. user.csv comes along with 200 rows of anonymous userID.
4. training_package_0*.csv comes along with 4,500 rows consist of four attributes: userID, topID, bottomID, and package rating ranged [1..5].
5. testing_package_0*.csv comes along with 1,500 rows consist of four attributes: userID, topID, bottomID, and package rating ranged [1..5].
6. training_individual_0*.csv comes along with 9,000 rows cinsist of four attributes: userID, itemID, individual rating ranged [1..5], and clothesType.

CITATION
============================================================
Please cite the following paper if you use the data in any way:

Matrix Factorization for Package Recommendations
A. Wibowo et al., ComplexRec 2017, August 27, 2017, Como, Italy.
